I was originally going to call Trump Tower by another name—Tiffany
Tower, for the famous jewelry store next door. I asked a friend, “Do you
think it should be Trump Tower or Tiffany Tower?” He said, “When you
change your name to Tiffany, call it Tiffany Tower.”
We’ve all seen the power of a brand name, especially quality brand
names. Coco Chanel became world-famous eighty years ago by naming
her first perfume Chanel No. 5, and it’s still going strong in a fiercely
competitive market. Her fragrance, as well as her name, has become
timeless. She proved that the right ingredients can create a legend.
Trump has become a great brand name, due to my rigorous standards
of design and quality. We all admire Rolls-Royce cars, and I see every one
of my ventures as being just that elite. Being a stickler has paid off,
because my buildings are considered to be the finest in the world. That
may sound like bragging, but it’s also a fact. I’ve never been one to
confuse facts with fiction. In 2003, Chicago Tribune real estate columnist
Mary Umberger attributed the sales for Trump International Hotel and
Tower in Chicago to “The Trump Factor.” Umberger reported: “The sales
velocity surprises even experienced real-estate players, who told me at the
sales inaugural that they doubted Trump would gain enough momentum
because Chicago’s luxury market was—and is—in a lull.”
Some people have written that I’m boastful, but they’re missing the
point. I believe in what I say, and I deliver the goods. If you’re devoting
? 56 ?
?How to Get Rich
your life to creating a body of work, and you believe in what you do, and
what you do is excellent, you’d better damn well tell people you think so.
Subtlety and modesty are appropriate for nuns and therapists, but if
you’re in business, you’d better learn to speak up and announce your
significant accomplishments to the world—nobody else will.
When I’m setting the price for a luxury apartment, I consider a lot of
factors—the market, the location, and the competition. Then I set my own
standards. Once, when some top-of-the-line apartments weren’t selling, I
upped the prices, way over the competition. They started selling
immediately.
I view my work as an art form and approach it with the same intensity
and ego as any ambitious artist would. I never planned on becoming a
brand name, but the fit of my aesthetic nature with each product I became
involved with has resulted in an expanding network of interests. The
success of the Trump name worldwide has been a surprise.
It’s been a good surprise. For example, using my name on a building
carries with it a promise of the highest quality available and at least a $5-
million price tag. That’s just for the name, because it will be worth it to the
developers, and they know it. That building will be up to my standards.
When I remember the line from Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet—“What’s
in a name?”—I have to laugh. What’s in a name can be far more than
either the Bard or I ever could have imagined.
We’ve all noticed the ascendancy of brand names and the power they
have, from Levi’s to Louis Vuitton. Some people are against this
widespread branding, seeing it as another form of labeling. I see it as a
viable outlet for creativity.
If you’re on the brink of success in your career, some snob might ask
you dismissively, “You don’t want to become a brand name, do you?”
Anyone who asks you that does not have the big picture in focus—and
they are usually just envious.
? 57 ?
?How to Get Rich
I can get a project off the ground in no time now, whereas an
unknown developer would require many months, if not years, to get
something going. The number of people I employ to get a project finished
reaches into the thousands, and those people would not have a building to
work on without a developer to give them a job. Commerce and art cannot
function independently—they must work together. That is the beauty of a
successful brand name.
If there is a downside to being a well-known name, it is that you
become an easy target. The media needs to tear down what it builds up;
that’s just part of journalism—stories are about heroes and villains, or
success and failure. If you’re a brand name, they’re going to take a shot at
you. It comes with the territory, and I’ve learned to live with it. As we say
on The Apprentice: It’s not personal. It’s business.
Fortunately, if you have the critics who matter on your side, reading
the newspaper can be a lot of fun. Herbert Muschamp, the architecture
critic for The New York Times, is a scholar and an authority when it comes
to buildings. To receive a compliment from him has an intrinsic value that
will never diminish. When he wrote an article on Trump World Tower
and described it as “a handsome hunk of a glass tower,” I was very
honored. Here’s more of what he wrote:
Although Donald Trump prefers to publicize the aggressive side of
his nature—it’s the manly thing to do—he is also the only beauty
freak at large in New York City real estate development… It’s not
surprising that unofficial approval of Trump’s building should
come by way of the Museum of Modern Art. The tower embodies
the Miesian aesthetic through which the Modern’s design
department’s taste was initially formulated—I hope Trump sticks
with this material. Trump does better when he ignores his critics
than when he pays attention to them.
? 58 ?
?How to Get Rich
So don’t be afraid to toot your own horn when you’ve done something
worth tooting about.
And don’t believe the critics unless they love your work. When we announced the deal, the Los Angeles Times reported, “As he has
so many times before, Trump has spotted a trend to tap.” True, but mostly
I was following my instincts and my interests.
? 52 ?
?How to Get Rich
Building golf courses is not a big business for me and it’s unlikely that
I will ever do another one. I want only the best.
Sometimes I will sell memberships while I am hitting balls on the
practice range. People approach me and hand me checks. One recent day
at my Florida course, a group of four wealthy friends came to me with
checks of $300,000 each. I said to myself: Not bad; I’m playing a game I love
and going home with $1,200,000 in my pocket.
I realize that some of you don’t care much about golf. Golf is one of
those things that has aficionados, just as opera has diehard fans who will
fly around the world to catch a certain performance. To people who don’t
know or like opera, that seems absurd.
I can’t make you love golf, but, believe me, once you’ve had the
opportunity to play on a beautiful course, it could turn you into an
enormous fan, or even a passionate player, no matter how poorly you hit
the ball.
If anyone had told me twenty years ago that I’d become a dedicated
golf course developer, I would have sent them out of the room for being
ridiculous. But golf has a transforming power. It’s a brain game. Yes, there
is skill and technique involved, but, just as important, it requires
concentration and assessment.
It’s a great way to improve your business skills, to learn how to
maneuver. It can even be equated with learning how to negotiate, which is
an art in itself.
Golf is also, in essence, a solitary game. Being an entrepreneur, even
within a large company, is a solitary game.
Ultimately, the rule here is not just to visit one of my golf courses
(though you would be wise to do so) but to turn your passion into profit.
The results of that passion will reward you in more ways than you ever
could have expected.
? 53 ?
?How to Get Rich
Passion is enthusiasm on a big scale. It is all-encompassing and
consuming. People with passion never give up because they’ll never have
a reason to give up, no matter what their circumstances may be. It’s an
intangible momentum that can make you indomitable.
Take out the passion and you will have a fizzle or, perhaps, an okay
product at best. Add the passion and you will be in a rarefied realm that
every other “passionista” will recognize—and one that every person
would like to enter.
A friend of mine is a member of what I call “the lucky sperm club”—
born into a wealthy family. He followed his father to Wall Street, but he
was a total failure. He didn’t like it, and he couldn’t do it. Meanwhile, he
became increasingly involved in his Connecticut country club. He was
named the head of the greens committee and took on the lead role in
rebuilding the golf course. He loved it and was great at it. The club held a
dinner for him out of gratitude for his volunteer work. I asked him, “Why
don’t you do this for a living? You’re not for Wall Street. You’re getting
eaten alive there.” He told me his family wouldn’t understand if he quit a
serious job to work on golf courses.
Well, two years later he took my advice, quit the Wall Street job, and is
now working full-time at renovating golf courses. He says he loves getting
up in the morning, and he is doing better than ever.
Of course, you don’t have to learn how to play golf to have a satisfying
career. But no matter what you do, you must be passionate about it. 
because I’m big and complex and they put together a statement, a financial statement. It’s a summary, but everything will be filed eventually with the government. And we don’t need extensions or anything, we’ll be filing it right on time.

We don’t need anything. And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said he had assets of nine billion.

I said, ‘no, that the wrong number. That’s the wrong number, not assets.’

So they put together this, and before I say it, I have to say this: I made it the old-fashioned way. It’s real estate. it’s labor and it’s union - good and some bad - and lots of people that aren’t unions and it’s all over the place and building all over the world.

And I have assets, big accounting firm - one of the most highly respected - $9,240,000,000.

And I have liabilities of about $500 - that’s long-term debt, very low interest rates.

In fact, one of the big banks came to me, said, ‘Donald, you don’t have enough borrowing, can we loan you $4 billion.”

I said ‘I don’t need it. I don’t want it. I’ve been there. I don’t want it.”

But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it’ll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of — net worth, not assets, not — a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets — Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York — many other places all over the world.

So the total is $8,737,540,000.

Now I’m not doing that, I’m not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don’t have to brag. I don’t have to, believe it or not.

I’m doing that to say that that’s the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.

We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don’t have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.

So I put together this statement, and the only reason I’m telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years — you know, we’re at $8 trillion now. We’re soon going to be at $20 trillion.

According to the economists, who I’m not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they’re saying, that $24 trillion. We’re very close, that’s the point of no return. $24 trillion.

We will be there soon. That’s when we become Greece. That’s when we become a country that’s unsalvageable. And we’re gonna be there very soon. We’re gonna be there very soon.

So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly. I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.

I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I’ll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall.

Mark my words.

Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody.

I will find, within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that’s going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.

I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And we won’t be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who’s making a horrible and laughable deal, who’s just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg.

I won’t be doing that. And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you.

I will immediately terminate President Obama’s illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.

Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.

Now, it’s very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are.

And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, ‘You know, Mr. Trump,’ and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, ‘You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn’t want guns. And now since this happened,’ it’s up in the prison area, ‘my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We’re ready to start shooting.’

I said, ‘Very interesting.’

So protect the Second Amendment.

End, end Common Core. Common Core should, it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core.

I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination. He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can’t do it.

We have to end, education has to be local.

Rebuild the country’s infrastructure. Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

You know, we’re building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we’re converting it into one of the world’s great hotels. It’s gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after — or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services.

We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it. Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we’re really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I’ll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.

So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports.

You come into LaGuardia Airport, it’s like we’re in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.

You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.

Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.

Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it.

You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that’s being lost.

Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.

Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we’re in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what’s happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.

Be careful of a bubble because what you’ve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.

And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.

Sadly, the American dream is dead. But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.

Thank you. Thank you very much.
And by the way, I’m not even saying that to brag. That’s the kind of mindset, that’s the kind of thinking you need for this country.

So, because we’ve got to make the country rich. It sounds crass. Somebody said ‘oh, that’s crass.’ It’s not crass.

We’ve got $18 trillion in debt, we’ve got nothing but problems.

We’ve got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We’ve got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.

We’ve got nothing.

We’ve got social security that’s going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn’t bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I’m not going to cut it at all. I’m going to bring money in, and we’re going to save it.

But here is what’s going to happen. After I’m called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I’m called by all of the special interests and by the donors and by the lobbyists - and they have zero chance at convincing me. Zero. I’ll get a call they next day from the head of Ford.

He’ll say, ‘Please reconsider.’

I’ll say, ‘No.’

He’ll say, ‘Mr. President, we’ve decided to move the plant back to the United States. We’re not going to build it in Mexico.’

That’s it. They’ll have no choice. They have no choice. There are hundred of things like that.

I’ll give you another example: Saudi Arabia. They make a billion dollars a day, a billion dollars a day.

I love the Saudis, many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We send, we’re going to protect - what are we doing? They got nothing but money.

If the right person asked them, they’d pay a fortune. They wouldn’t be there except for us.

And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen - you remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later the place was blown up. Everybody.

And they kept our equipment. They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment, we ought to send some real junk because, frankly, it would be - we ought to send our surplus. We’re always losing this gorgeous, brand-new stuff.

But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They’re gone.

And I’m the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I’m running against now, it’s so nice to say I’m running as opposed to if I run, if I run - I’m running.

But all of these politicians that I’m running against now, they’re trying to dissociate. I mean, you look at Bush - it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn’t answer the question. He didn’t know.

I said, ‘Is he intelligent?’

And then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question. He didn’t know.

How are these people going to lead us? How are we going to go back and made it great again? We can’t They don’t have a clue. They can’t lead us. They can’t.

They can’t even answer simple questions. It was terrible, but Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble.

Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil. And the cartel kept the prices up because, again, they were smarter than our leaders.

They were smarter than our leaders. There is so much wealth out there that we can make our country so rich again and, therefore, make it great again.

Because we need money. We’re dying. We’re dying. We need money. We have to do it and we need the right people.

So Ford will come back. They’ll all come back. And I will say this - this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that’s based on competence.

Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, very nice reporter - ‘But Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person.’

But actually, I am. I think I’m a nice person. Does my family like me? I think so. Look at my family.

I’m proud of my family by the way. Speaking of my family - Melania, Barron, Kai, Donny, Dunn, Vanessa, Tiffany, Ivanka did a great job. Did she do a great job? Jarrett, Laura and Eric. I’m very proud of my family. They’re a great family.

So the report said to me the other day ‘But Mr. Trump, you’re not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?’

I said, ‘I don’t know. I think that, number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things.’

I think I’m actually a very nice person, but I said ‘This is going to be an election that’s based off competence. Because people are tired of these nice people and they’re tired of being ripped of by everybody in the world and they’re tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita. Than any nation in the world.’

And we’re 26th in the world. Twenty-five countries are better than us at education, and some of them are like, third-world countries.

But we’re becoming a third-world country because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything.

So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I’ll do? I’ll do it. And a lot of people said ‘he’ll never run. Number one, he won’t want to give up his lifestyle.’

They’re right about that, but I’m doing it.

Number two - I’m a private company, so nobody knows what I’m worth. And the one thing is, when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities, your net worth.

So I said, ‘that’s okay, I’m proud of my net worth.’

I’ve done an amazing job. I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens. And my father said - and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator.

I learned so much just sitting as his feet playing with blocks, listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.

But he used to say ‘Donald, don’t go into Manhattan. That’s the big leagues. We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it.’

But I said, ‘Dad, I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those buildings. I’ve got to do it, Dad, I’ve got to do it.’

And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals: the Grand Hyatt hotel, I was responsible for the convention center on the west side.

I did a lot of great deals and I did them early and young, and now I’m building all over the world. And I love what I’m doing.

But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, ‘well Donald will never run and one of the main reasons is, he’s private, and he’s probably not as successful as everybody thinks.’

So I said to myself, ‘you know, nobody’s ever going to know unless I run because I’m really proud of my success, I really am.’

I’ve employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical, that means education, that means everything.
I’m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.

Number one: the people negotiating it don’t have a clue. Our president doesn’t have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator. He’s the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there. We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor and they get the five people that they wanted for years. And those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That’s the negotiator we have

Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster and we have to protect Israel.

So we need people - I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is, you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don’t have talented people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that know business - not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs just about are gotten, free trade is terrible.

Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people. But we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren’t smart, and we have people that are controlled by special interests and it’s just not going to work.

So here’s a couple of stories. Happened recently, a friend of mine is a great manufacturer, and you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff.

I buy it. I buy it because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly. They just did it recently and nobody thought they could do it again, but with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything, everything, they got away with it again.

And it’s impossible for our people here to compete. So I want to tell you this story. Friend of mine if a great manufacturer. Calls me up a few weeks ago, he’s very upset.

I said, ‘What’s your problem?’

He said, ‘You know, I make a great product.’

I said, ‘I know, I know that, because I buy the product.’

He said, ‘I can’t get it into China. They won’t accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it.’

I said, ‘Oh, wait a minute, that’s terrible. Did anyone know this?’

He said, ‘They do it all the time with other people.’

I said, ‘They send it back?’

He said, ‘Yea, so I finally got it over there, and they charged me a big tariff.’

They're not supposed to be doing that. I told him. Now they do charge you tariffs on trucks when we send trucks and other things over there.

Ask Boeing. They wanted all their patents and secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.

Hey, I’m not saying they’re stupid. I like China. I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them?

I own a big chunk of the Bank of America building at 1290 Avenue of Americas that I got from China in a war. Very valuable. I love China.

The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower.

I love China. People say, ‘Oh, you don’t like China.’ No, I love them, but their leaders are much smarter than our leaders. And we can’t sustain ourselves with that.

There’s too much - it’s like, it’s like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That’s the difference between China’s leaders and our leaders.

They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We are rebuilding many countries.

China, you got there now - roads, bridges, schools. You never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes.

And they’re all over the place. We have all the cards, but we don’t know how to use them. We don’t even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don’t understand the game.

We would turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.

Now they’re going militarily. They’re building a military island in the middle of the South China Sea - a military island. Now, our country could never do that because we’d have to get environmental clearance and the environmentalists wouldn’t let our country - we would never be able to build in an ocean.

They built it in about one year, this massive military port. They’re building up their military to a point that is very scary.

You have a problem with ISIS, you have a bigger problem with China.

And in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade is Mexico.

So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, ‘that’s a terrible story, I hate to hear it.’

But I have another one, Ford. So Mexico takes a company, car company, that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported in the “Wall Street Journal” recently.

Everybody said that it was a done deal. It’s going in, and that’s going to be it, going into Tennessee -. great state, great people. All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they’re not going to Tennessee, they’re going to spend their billion dollars in Mexico instead. Not good.

Now Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion. It’s going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford - good company.

So I announced that I’m running for President. I would, one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in, and I wouldn’t even use - you know, I know the smartest negotiators in the world.

I know the good ones, I know the bad ones, I know the overrated ones. You’ve got a lot that are overrated. They get good stories because the newspapers get buffaloed. But they’re not good.

But I know the best negotiators in the world and I’d put them one for each country. Believe me folks, we will do very, very well. Very, very well.

But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was President I’d say ‘Congratulations, I understand that you’re building a nice, $2.5 billion dollar factory in Mexico and that you’re going to take your cars and sell them to the United States. Zero tax - just across the board.’

And you say to yourself, ‘How does that help us, right? Where is that good.’ It’s not.

So I’d say ‘Congratulations, that’s the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car, and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we’re going to charge you a 35% tax. Okay? And that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that’s it.’

Now here’s what’s going to happen. If it’s not me in the position, if it’s one of these politicians that we’re running against, you know, the 400 people that we’re - and here’s what going to happen. They’re not so stupid. They know it’s not a good thing. And they may even be upset by it,

But then they’re going to get a call from their donors or probably from the lobbyists for Ford and say ‘you can’t do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me, and I take care of you, and you can’t do that to Ford.’

And you know what? No problem. They’re going to build in Mexico, they’re going to take away thousands of jobs. That’s very bad for us. So under President Trump, here’s what would happen: The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told him the bad news, but it could be he’d want to be cool and he’ll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.

And he’ll say, ‘Please, please, please.’

He’ll beg for a little while, and I’ll say, ‘Sorry, no interest.’

Then he’ll call all sorts of political people and I’ll say ‘Sorry fellas, no interest.’

Because I don’t need anybody’s money. It’s nice. I don’t need anybody’s money. I’m using my own money. I’m not using lobbyists, I’m not using donors. I don’t care. I’m really rich.
And remember the $5 billion website, 5 billion we spent on a website, and to this day it doesn’t work. A $5 billion dollar website.

I have so many websites. I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a website. It costs me $3.

$5 billion dollar website.

Well you need somebody because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing’s going to get done. They will not bring us, believe me, to the promised land. They will not.

TWITTER REACTS TO DONALD TRUMP'S BIZARRE 2016 ANNOUNCEMENT

As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches and I hear my fellow Republicans and they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them.

They don’t know how to bring it about, they come up to my office. I’m meeting with three of them in the next week and they don’t know: Are you running, are you not running, could we have your support, what do we do, how do we do it?

And I like them. I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs. They don’t talk China. When was the last time you heard ‘China’s killing us?’ They’re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe it makes it impossible for our companies to compete. Impossible.

They’re killing us, but you don’t hear that from anyone else. You don’t hear that from anybody else.

And I watch the speeches. I watch the speeches and they say ‘the sun will rise. The moon will set. All sorts of wonderful things will happen.’

And the people are saying ‘What’s going on? I just want a job. I don’t need the rhetoric, I just want a job.'

And it’s going to get worse because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in 2016, 2016.

Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might even be on one of my courses - I would invite him. I have the best courses in the world. So I say, you know what, if he wants to - I have one right next to the White House. Right on the Potomac. If he wants to, if he’d like to play, that’s fine. In fact I’d love him to leave early and play. That would be a very good thing.

But Obamacare kicks in in 2016, really bigly. It is going to be amazingly destructive.

Doctors are quitting.

I have a friend who’s a doctor and he said to me the other day: ‘Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. My patients are besides themselves. They had a plan that was good. They had a plan. They have no plan now.’

We have to repeal Obamacare and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody, but much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.

So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life. If you can’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with you. There’s something certainly not very good and that’s what we have representing us.

They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance. They are controlled fully, they are controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors and by the special interests. Fully. They control them.

Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you, I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They’re great. But you know what? It won’t happen. It won’t happen because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for our country it’s destroying this country.

We have to stop and it has to stop now.

Our country needs, our country needs a truly great leader and we need a truly great leader now.

We need a leader that wrote the Art of the Deal. We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets - our vets have been abandoned. And we also need a cheerleader.

You know, when President Obama was elected I said ‘Well, the one thing I think he’ll do well - I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he’d be a great spirit. He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought he would be a great cheerleader.

He’s not a leader, that’s true. You’re right about that. But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a negative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader, he was the opposite.

We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It’s not great.

We need, we need, we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.

And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They’re saying, ‘Dad, you’re going to do something that’s so tough.’

You know, all of my life I’ve heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person - and even modestly successful - cannot run for public office. Just can’t happen.

And yet, that’s the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.

So, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for President of the United States and we are going to make our country great again.

It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous potential.

We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they’re going to have incentive to work. Because the greatest social program is a job. And they’ll be proud, and they’ll love it, and they’ll make much more money than they would have ever made. And they’ll be doing so well, and we’re going to be thriving as a country. Thriving. It can happen.

I will be the greatest jobs president that god ever created, I tell you that.

I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I’ll bring back our jobs, and I’ll bring back our money.

Right now, think of this - we owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money and then they loan us back the money and we pay them in interest. And then the dollar goes up, so their deal’s even better.

How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?
Last quarter, it was just announced, our gross domestic product - a sign of strength, right? But not for us.

It was below zero. Who ever heard of this? It’s never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978.

But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate, and our real unemployment is anywhere from 18-20%. Don’t believe the 5.6. Don’t believe it.

That’s right - a lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs because there are no jobs because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have our jobs. But the real number, the real number, is anywhere from 18-19 and maybe even 21% and nobody talks about it because it’s a statistic that’s full of nonsense.

DONALD TRUMP IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT

Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the day and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.

It came out recently. They have equipment that’s 30 years old and they don’t even know if it works. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television because boy does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say ‘OK, that is a group of people and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing.’

We have a disaster called the big lie - Obamacare, Obamacare.

Yesterday it came out that costs are going, for people, up 39, 39, 49 and even 55%. And deductibles are through the roof. You have to get hit by a tractor, literally a tractor, to use it because the deductibles are so high it’s virtually useless. It’s a disaster
In 2000, I thought about running for president of the United States as a
third-party candidate. I proposed some sensible ideas: tax cuts for the
middle class, tougher trade deals, a ban on unregulated soft money in
campaigns, comprehensive health care reform. I formed an exploratory
committee and met with Reform Party leaders, but in the end I realized I
was enjoying my business too much to run for office.
Remember the rule I mentioned earlier about how you shouldn’t
equivocate? That may work for business, but in politics, you usually have
to watch your words. I’m too blunt to be a politician. Then, there’s my
long-held aversion to shaking hands. (More on this in a moment.) Had I
entered the race, I wouldn’t have been very popular. Even during the few
months I was considering candidacy, I noticed that people began to treat
me differently—in a more reserved, less friendly way. Before, I had been
The Donald, someone they would wave and smile at. Suddenly, it was a
different ball game, and it didn’t seem like much fun to me. One guy I had
been friendly with for years saw me at Le Cirque and for the first time in
my life called me “Mr. Trump.” He had always called me “Donald.” That
was a real heads-up.
A lot of successful businesspeople think they can apply their
management skills to politics, but I’ve noticed that only a select few, like
Michael Bloomberg and Jon Corzine, succeed. Most others lack the
temperament for it.
? 62 ?
?How to Get Rich
There’s a larger point here, beyond the obvious ones about not
confusing your talent for office politics with a gift for electoral politics.
Anyone with more than a little curiosity and ambition will at some point
be tempted to try a different challenge on new terrain. Take the risk, but
before you do, do everything you can to learn what you’re getting yourself
into, and be as sure as you can that you’ve got the right mind-set for the
job. Some business executives believe in a firm handshake. I believe in no
handshake. It is a terrible practice. So often, I see someone who is
obviously sick, with a bad cold or the flu, who approaches me and says,
“Mr. Trump, I would like to shake your hand.” It’s a medical fact that this
is how germs are spread. I wish we could follow the Japanese custom of
bowing instead.
The worst is having to shake hands during a meal. On one occasion, a
man walked out of the restaurant’s bathroom, jiggling his hands as though
they were still wet and he hadn’t used a towel. He spotted me, walked
over to my table, and said, “Mr. Trump, you’re the greatest. Would you
please shake my hand?”
I knew that if I didn’t shake his hand, he’d be saying terrible things
about me for thirty years. I also knew that if I agreed, my own hands
would be loaded with germs or whatever the hell he’d carried out of the
bathroom. I had a choice.
In this case, I decided to shake hands, because I was a little overweight
at the time and knew that if I shook his hand I wouldn’t eat my meal—and
that would be a good thing. One of the problems with my schedule lately is that I am unable to
accommodate most of the requests I receive for public speaking. I happen
to enjoy giving speeches. I know some people dread the thought of having
to give a presentation in a boardroom, let alone appearing before
thousands of people. Not me. I get so much energy from my audiences
that it is always fun.
I’ll bet a lot of you are wondering whether I’m making that up to
sound like I’m not afraid of anything. It’s possible I’m forgetting a few
stressful moments. Years ago I was probably nervous about facing an
audience, but I got over it. Being afraid of speaking in public is something
you can conquer. The following pointers can be applied by people who
find presentations, whatever the size of the audience, to be a roadblock on
their highway to success.
It helps if you are a naturally gregarious person. My driver, Tony,
recalls a time when I was going to deliver a speech. When we were about
five minutes away, I asked Tony what I was supposed to be talking about
that night. Tony couldn’t hide his shock. He said, “Boss, don’t you know?
There are twenty thousand people waiting for you.”
I said, “Yeah, but I’ve been busy. I’m sure it will be okay.” I was trying
to reassure him.
? 66 ?
?How to Get Rich
No go. He said, “Where are your notes? Didn’t you make any notes?”
I said, “I’m making some now.”
Tony was looking at me through the rearview mirror with an
expression of astonishment. I think he was checking to see whether I was
kidding. I wasn’t.
I’d been asked to give the speech by Anthony Robbins, the bestselling
author and self-help guru. I had been paid a great deal of money for the
speech, but I’d never asked how many people I would be speaking in front
of. As I was leaving the office to go to Philadelphia, my secretary told me I
would be speaking at a basketball arena, the Wachovia Center, and that
there would be approximately twenty thousand people there. I said,
“You’ve got to be kidding. I’ve never spoken before twenty thousand
people before!” When I say altitude, I’m not referring to my jet. It’s my own interpretation
of the word attitude. I like flying because it gets me where I’m going, fast.
Likewise, if you have the right attitude, you can get where you’re going,
fast.
What’s the altitude of your attitude? Is it high frequency or low
frequency? Having a high frequency will attune you to a wavelength that
exudes confidence and clear-sighted enthusiasm. I’m a firm believer that
this is half the battle of any enterprise.
I’m a tough-minded optimist. I learned a long time ago that my
productivity was increased by a large percentage simply by learning to let
go of negativity in all forms as quickly as I could. My commitment to
excellence is thorough—so thorough that it negates the wavelength of
negativity immediately. I used to have to zap negativity mentally. By now,
it just bounces off me within a moment of getting near me. As you may
have heard, I don’t like germs. I’m still waging a personal crusade to
replace the mandatory and unsanitary handshake with the Japanese
custom of bowing. To me, germs are just another kind of negativity.
Negativity is also a form of fear, and fear can be paralyzing. On the
golf course, I’ve heard great athletes tell me that they can’t putt. They can
hit a ball three hundred yards right down the middle of the fairway, but
they can’t finish the hole by putting the ball three feet into the cup.
? 75 ?
?How to Get Rich
Recently, I played with a man who is terrified of putting. He hit a
magnificent 235-yard shot and was seven feet from the cup. Then he
looked over at me and said, “Now the hard part begins.”
Another friend, also a great golfer, is paralyzed by his fear of losing his
ball. Each time we played a hole near a lake, he would look down and say
to his ball, “I have a feeling I’ll never see you again.”
I have told these two guys that they must start thinking positively or
they will sabotage themselves.
Very often, negative thinking stems from low self-esteem. You have to
work on this yourself. Maybe you’ve received a lot of hard knocks. I’ve
learned to deal with them because I get knocked a lot. Quickly see them
for what they are—knocks. But you don’t have to open the door unless
you choose to. I’ve gotten to the point where I see knocks as opportunities
and as an insight into whoever is doing the knocking.
One way to chase low altitude away is to think about how fortunate
you already are and how much you still have to look forward to. You can
better your best day at any time. Very surprising things can happen, but
you must—and I repeat must—be open to them. How can you fly if you’ve
already clipped your own wings?
I don’t have time to encourage as many people as I would like to, but
whenever it seems appropriate, I recommend The Power of Positive Thinking
by Norman Vincent Peale, one of my father’s favorite books, and mine,
too. Some people may think it’s old-fashioned, but what Peale has written
will always be true. He advocates faith over fear. Faith can overcome the
paralysis that fear brings with it.
I can remember a time when I had a choice to make, when I was
billions of dollars in debt. I had to take one of two courses of action: a
fearful, defensive one or a faithful, riskier one. I carefully analyzed the
situation, realized what was causing the uneasy feeling of fear, and
immediately replaced it with blind faith, simply because I had nothing
? 76 ?
?How to Get Rich
else to go on at the time. Then I resolved that as long as I remained
positive and disciplined, things would work out.
There was not much more I could do. I didn’t know how it was going
to go, but I was determined to move forward, even though it wasn’t easy.
Within a relatively short amount of time, the situation was settled
positively. I learned a lot from that and have since had a better
understanding of what courage really is. Without facing my own fear, I
would not have known.
When I think of someone who is tough, I also think of someone who
has courage. People who persist have courage, because often it’s a lot
easier to give up. Some of the bravest people I’ve met are children with
handicaps. I’m active with United Cerebral Palsy. What those kids deal
with is humbling, but they are enthusiastic and thrilled with every day
they’ve been given.
You’ve been given a day, too. When you’re down, look at it that way.
Another day can equal another chance. Sometimes, as obvious as it
sounds, we really do have to take things one day at a time. Immediately
after the events of September 11, we didn’t know what was going to
happen, but we all kept going, one day at a time, and we’re still moving
forward.
Maybe you’ve gotten to the point where you think you can’t get
through another day. That’s shortsighted of you. You’re missing the big
picture. You’re on the runway, but your fuel supply is the problem. You
won’t get off the ground without it. Feed yourself some positive thoughts
and you can take off at any time.
Ever wonder what makes certain people keep going? I do. Abraham
Lincoln encountered a steady procession of setbacks, but he just kept at it.
Nothing deterred him. He must have had a lot of faith, because he didn’t
receive much encouragement along the way. He’s an excellent example of
someone who never gave up.
? 77 ?
?How to Get Rich
The other extreme is the person who seems to run into obstacles with
the unerring aim of a marksman. I knew a guy who was remarkably
accident-prone. If there was something to run into, he’d find it. If there
was a hole in the ground, he’d break his foot by stumbling into it.
Once, he was in such a slam-bang accident that he was hospitalized for
six months before being completely patched up. Finally, the day of his
release from the hospital arrived and it was decided that he should get an
ambulance ride home, just to be on the safe side. As the ambulance was
taking him home, it crashed into a car—another spectacular slam-bang
accident. My friend was immediately brought back to the hospital, in a
new ambulance dispatched to the scene of the disaster. What can I say?
Maybe he’s just a really unlucky guy. Or maybe he’s a loser. I know that
sounds harsh, but let’s face it—some people are losers.
The altitude level of losers is so low that they should walk around in
scuba gear all day. They are below sea level on the altitude map. We all
know people like that, and they might make great comedians because they
have so much material—but first they’d have to learn to be funny.
Honestly, I’ve known people who are such accomplished losers that I
think that’s what they devote their time to:
How can I be the biggest screwup possible?
How can I prove the born loser theory to be correct?
How can I defy the law of probability to make it an absolute disaster every
time?
How can I achieve a perfect record of total wipeouts?
How far can I get at zero miles per hour?
How can I reach the lowest frequency possible?
How can I operate so that radar could never possibly find me even if I get lost,
which I probably will?
? 78 ?
?How to Get Rich
These people need a new speedometer.
Get going. Move forward. Aim high. Plan for a takeoff. Don’t just sit
on the runway and hope someone will come along and push the airplane.
It simply won’t happen.
Change your attitude and gain some altitude. Believe me, you’ll love it
up here. I find reading psychology and self-help books useful. Carl Jung’s theories
fascinate me and keep my mind open to my own—and the collective—
unconscious.
Reading his books can also be a good form of self-defense.
There’s a lot we don’t know about ourselves. Likewise, there’s a lot we
may not know about everyone else. Jung used the word psyche to refer to
both the conscious and the unconscious processes. (That’s where the word
psycho comes from, by the way.) I first became aware of Jung through an
acquaintance who had endured some extreme ordeals, yet he remained
calm. I couldn’t fathom where he got this sort of “grace under fire”
demeanor, so I asked him, and he told me that Jung’s ideas kept him
centered.
My friend put it like this: “Donald, I’ve learned from my experiences.
As a safety factor, I very often see other people as a revolver that could be
pointed at me. They are the gun. I, however, am the trigger. So I speak and
tread carefully. It’s an effective visual aid to avoid conflicts, as I was
unwittingly among people who were actually psychos underneath their
dignified personas. We never know what will trigger another person’s
killer instinct. It can be something that happened when they were five
years old. So avoid being the trigger, and the revolver will not be a threat.”
This synopsis of his philosophy made such an impact on me that I
immediately started reading about Carl Jung. I’m glad I did, because it
? 83 ?
?How to Get Rich
helped me in my business as well as in my personal life. We are all
evolving human beings, and being aware of this gave me a big boost
toward maturity. It also made me less inclined to be surprised by so-called
aberrant behavior. I have to stress that I am not cynical, but I am aware. I
hate being in situations where I’m asking myself, How could this have
happened? This reminds me of my favorite quote from Napoleon about
being surprised: A good leader shouldn’t be.
You have to know yourself as well as know other people to be an
effective leader. For me, reading the work of Carl Jung was a step in the
right direction. If someone had told me in business school that studying
psychology would be important for financial success, I would not have
believed it. My friend’s story changed that, and I am grateful to him for
such cogent advice. The relatively small number of hours I’ve spent
reading Jung have been more than worth it. Start with his autobiography,
Memories, Dreams, Reflections, and you will be in for a fascinating time
while simultaneously fine-tuning your intuition and instincts. You will
also gain a technique for seeing into—versus reading into—the people
around you. Believe me, this will serve you well on many levels.
The word persona has an interesting root. It comes from the Latin word
meaning “mask.” This, however, is not derogatory. It’s necessary. Each of
us has a persona. We need it for survival. It’s the face we put on for public
use, and it can be intentional or unconscious. For example, a salesman
who has lost his entire family in an accident is, naturally, devastated. But
to work effectively with his customers, he must appear cheerful and
confident. That’s part of his persona. It’s a survival device.
The only danger is when people become their personae. That means
something has been shut off somewhere along the line, and these people
will end up hiding behind the false personality that works professionally.
As I am very much in the public eye, this hit home and I gave it
considerable thought. Fortunately, I am aware of my public side as well as
? 84 ?
?How to Get Rich
my private side, and, while I’m not one for hiding much, I know there are
several dimensions in which I operate. That’s one reason I feel at home at
The Trump Organization. The people I work with day in and day out
know I’m not entirely a glam guy. They see how hard I work. One person
said I am very much like a Mormon, which I took as high praise.
Anyway, reading Jung will give you insights into yourself and the
ways in which you and other people operate. As you know, this rule has been easy for me to follow. But hear me out—
I’ve got a good reason for it.
Having a well-developed ego, contrary to popular opinion, is a
positive attribute. It is the center of our consciousness and serves to give
us a sense of purpose. I remember saying to someone, “Show me someone
with no ego and I’ll show you a big loser.” I was trying to stir things up
and provoke a reaction, but I later realized the basic idea is on target.
The ego works to keep our conscious and unconscious aspects in
balance. Too much either way can be detrimental. No ego means very little
life force, and too much means a dictatorial personality. Keep your ego in
a healthy balance, for your own well-being as well as for those around
you. Strive for wholeness. It’s an intelligent approach to life and business.
Understanding how egos work can be a great tool. Did you ever notice
how you can deflate an opponent by simply saying, “Yeah, whatever you
say…”? By doing this, you are gently assuming a no-ego position, which
disarms the other person while at the same time taking the wind out of
their sails. It gives you the peace of mind necessary to allow you to
concentrate on something more important than dealing with someone
who is playing God.
Sometimes, rather than confronting a tyrant or a psycho directly, it’s
more effective to keep the knowledge to yourself and proceed accordingly,
behind the scenes.
? 86 ?
?How to Get Rich
We’ve all heard the saying that knowledge is power. The intelligent
use of that power is crucial in the business world, and it’s just as
important in your personal life. Your mind can build castles—just make
sure the foundations are in place first. You, and the people around you,
will be grateful for that. People who think achieving success is a linear A-to-Z process, a straight
shot to the top, simply aren’t in touch with reality. There are very few
bona fide overnight success stories. It just doesn’t work that way.
Success appears to happen overnight because we all see stories in
newspapers and on TV about previously unknown people who suddenly
become famous. But consider a sequoia tree that has been growing for
several hundred years. Just because a television crew one day decides to
do a story about that tree doesn’t mean it didn’t exist before.
In 1955, Glenn Gould, the classical pianist from Toronto, rocketed to
international fame by recording Bach’s Goldberg Variations. He was
young and unusual, but he had already been practicing the piano for close
to twenty years. He may have seemed like an overnight sensation to the
general public, but anyone who’s been working at something for twenty
years isn’t likely to agree with that assessment.
I have to admit that my knowledge of classical music is limited, but
from what little I’ve read on the subject, I know that the process of
becoming a classical musician is a long and demanding one. The amount
of practice hours required to master an instrument is astounding, and also
never ending. How do they do it? I’m not sure, but I would guess that
passion plays a large part.
? 90 ?
?How to Get Rich
Every industry and profession has its bottom line for what is required
to succeed. If you can’t stand to practice every day, being a musician is out
of the question. If you hate to exercise, being an athlete is not for you.
In business—every business—the bottom line is understanding the
process. If you don’t understand the process, you’ll never reap the
rewards of the process. You’ll never last long enough to achieve your
“overnight” success.
Part of the process is doing your homework. You have to know what
you’re getting into first. That was one of my father’s strongest beliefs.
We’ve all heard the phrase “You’re barking up the wrong tree.” It brings
to mind a funny image, but in reality it can be embarrassing. Not doing
your homework can result in something analogous, so do a few things
first to avoid this.
We can learn from our mistakes, but it’s better to learn from our
successes. When I hear people say, “Well, it was an interesting experience,”
I can usually safely assume they are referring to something that didn’t
work out the way they’d planned. I don’t find my goof-ups to be amusing
or interesting.
Can you imagine hearing a surgeon say, “Well, it didn’t go quite right,
but I sure learned a lot”? I wouldn’t want that guy operating on me. The
same applies to anyone in business, because if you’re in business, it’s not
just your money involved, but very often the money and well-being of
others as well. In my business, I can’t take chances. If something is not
quite right with the design or construction of a superstructure, a lot of
people could be injured or killed. I’ve got to know what’s going on. Bottom
line, it will be my responsibility.
People see the finished product. Wow, a skyscraper! What goes into it
is another story. Construction isn’t glamorous. It’s a serious and often
dangerous endeavor. Fortunately, I understood this from my earliest days
? 91 ?
?How to Get Rich
in the business, so there’s a certain gravity in my approach to the
construction of any building.
That’s where having learned to do my homework comes in handy. It’s
a necessary requirement, not an extracurricular course to enhance my
productivity. Not only do I have to know exactly what I’m doing, but I’ve
also got to make sure I find contractors who know exactly what they’re
doing as well. That’s why I’m tough on them, and that’s why I’m equally
tough on myself. A lot of lives are at stake in our work. We don’t want any
“interesting” experiences!
We all know what it’s like to pretend to study. There are some courses
in school that just don’t hold your attention. If you are choosing a career,
keep that in mind. What most holds your attention?
Consider a pyramid. Did you ever notice how large and solid the
foundation is? Did you notice the carefully graduated levels that
eventually lead to the pinnacle? Now turn the pyramid upside down.
That’s a representation of topsy-turvy thinking. You don’t start at the top.
You start with the foundation—the stronger, the better.
The world moves along at such a fast clip that we have little patience
when things are slow, whether it’s the line at a supermarket or Internet
access. We’ve become intolerant of those things that cannot be accelerated
or skipped entirely. I can’t speed up the foundation work for a building,
nor can I expect to play piano like Glenn Gould just because I want to.
Know the limitations as well as the possibilities of everything you do.
Find out as much as you can yourself about what you plan to do, and don’t
expect anyone to act as your favorite grandmother in wanting what’s best
for you. Most people want what’s best for themselves, not for you. If those
people have already spent a great deal of effort on their homework, why
should they share it with you? I learned a long time ago to listen, but to listen judiciously. You can learn a
lot from the people around you—you just have to be discerning about the
information that comes your way. A lot of the so-called information I
receive turns out to be someone’s personal opinion. We’re all entitled to
our two cents’ worth, but sometimes that’s all it amounts to.
Be aware of the marketplace. Know what’s going on now. That’s one
reason I devote several hours a day to reading. That’s how long it takes to
both keep up with current events and learn from the greats in history.
How can you expect to be successful if your idea of what’s happening in
the world is vague or nonexistent? That’s like saying, “I know that
September 11 happened, but I choose not to acknowledge it. It gets in the
way of my positive outlook on things.” That approach is fine if you’re a
professional fairy-tale writer.
There’s another side to everything, so develop your ability to see it—
or even hear it. I once met a young woman from Hong Kong who worked
on Wall Street in emerging markets. She had an uncanny ability to predict
certain events in the marketplace—it seemed almost like a psychic gift to
me.
One day, I asked her how she could be so on target in her work and
she likened knowing and predicting the global markets to listening to a
Ping-Pong game.
? 93 ?
?How to Get Rich
At first, I thought she was joking, or perhaps just being evasive, but
she went on to explain her theory.
“I’m not kidding you, Donald. When I was growing up, we had a
Ping-Pong table in the den, and I could hear the games my brothers would
play, sometimes for hours, when I was studying in my room. I discovered
that I could discern the tilt of the paddle, and the outcome of the volley,
just by the sound of the Ping-Pong ball being hit, and the sound of it
landing on the other side of the net. I knew the results, the repercussions,
and the recovery that would be required to successfully handle what had
been dealt.
“Later, I applied this to my work in emerging markets and found I
could often predict what would be happening just by concentrating on
world events and thinking of the sound of Ping-Pong balls being hit
around the globe. Ping-Pong is really the reason behind my success.”
I was astounded. That’s my idea of tuning in.
I must add that this young woman had all the education in finance
that her position required. She was a bright student. What set her apart
from everyone else was the way she applied her knowledge and her keen
analysis of the game of Ping-Pong to her work. She may even have done
this on an unconscious level initially, but tapping into this resource gave
her an uncanny edge. The lesson I learned from her story is never to
underestimate the power of awareness.
Find out what other people have done to succeed, and then be
prepared to do ten times more. There are no guarantees.
Comparing ourselves to others is a waste of time. I’ve heard people
say, “Well, Mr. Lucky had a million dollars before he was thirty and I’ve
worked just as hard as he has.” Well, Mr. Lucky has nothing to do with
you, your possibilities, your success, or your failure. Don’t let anyone else
be your yardstick. That’s taking power away from yourself in a big way.
? 94 ?
?How to Get Rich
You’ve got your own personal blueprint to attend to. We can’t all be
Tiger Woods, J. Lo, Bill Gates, or whoever it is you would like to be, and
sometimes that’s a hard fact to face. You may have already experienced
defeat. That happens. It happens a lot! But the fact that you have
aspirations to begin with is putting you on the road to success right now.
No matter how defeated you may feel, you’ve still got a chance. But it
won’t happen by itself. Get to work!
I’ll sum up with two of my favorite quotes:  read an article recently in which European exchange students living in
the United States all agreed on one aspect of American life: The noise level
here is very high. We seem to avoid quiet moments. Even lapses in
conversation are quickly filled with banter or some kind of interference.
It made me realize how much I need a certain amount of quiet time—
usually about three hours a day—in order to stay balanced. It’s time I use
to read and reflect, and I always feel renewed and refreshed by this. It also
gives me material to feed my extroverted nature.
For me, the early morning hours are best for this kind of reflection. I’m
an early riser, usually up by 5A.M., which gives me a few hours to read
newspapers and magazines of all sorts—local, national, and international.
In the evening, after a black-tie dinner, I’ll unwind by stopping at my
local Korean grocery for snacks—potato chips and pretzels. That will be
my dinner. I rarely get to eat at those black-tie events, and I’d rather have
the junk food, anyway.
Once I’m home, I read books—usually biographies. Now and then I
like to read about philosophers—particularly Socrates, who emphasizes
that you should follow the convictions of your conscience, which basically
means thinking for yourself, a philosophy I tend to agree with. It may not
make you too popular, but it’s essential for lucid thought, and it’s a good
way to avoid being part of a herd mentality of any sort.
I read as much as I can, but not as much as I’d like, because there are
so many constraints on my time. I am grateful for the contribution Oprah
Winfrey has made to our country in regard to reading. In my book The
America We Deserve, I wrote about the deplorable state of reading in this
country. Since Oprah decided to do something about it, there has been a
noticeable upswing in book sales, and writers are once again considered to
be cool people rather than dinosaurs. I cannot thank Oprah enough for
what she has done, and I hope every person in this country realizes the
positive influence she has had. We all owe Oprah a big thank-you, and I’d
like to lead the crowd in saying so.
I like movies and television as much as anyone else, but reading is a
form of replenishment for me. The potato chips and pretzels help, too. I used to pride myself on buying very inexpensive suits and other
clothing. It just didn’t make sense to pay thousands of dollars for great
clothes when you could buy something for a hundred dollars. Who would
know the difference?
Over the years, I’ve learned that this is wrongheaded. I now buy very
high-quality shoes, and they seem to last forever, whereas the cheapos
used to wear out quickly and always looked as cheap as the price I’d paid
for them. The same is true for suits. These days, I go for Brioni, whose
service and attention to detail is second to none. They supplied most of the
clothing for The Apprentice, so I have tremendous loyalty to them (and I
got a good deal). They also make great overcoats.
The way we dress says a lot about us before we ever say a word. To
me, dressing successfully means understanding your environment:
knowing the culture and making an effort to reflect—and respect—it.
The “look” in Beverly Hills may be attractive, but that same look may
be met with scorn on Wall Street. Success is hard enough to achieve
without showing up on casual Friday in a three-piece suit. Don’t put up
unnecessary hurdles for yourself.
Make it easy for people to take you seriously. I would wonder about
someone who arrived for a meeting or an interview and was dressed
inappropriately for the culture of that particular workplace—for example,
a guy showing up at Trump Tower in a cowboy hat, boots, and a fringed
cowhide jacket. It’s more about culture than style. Be aware of your
surroundings and dress accordingly.
Some people can get away with anything. Most people can’t. Micha
Koeppel, who works at The Trump Organization, usually looks like a
Canadian Mountie in full regalia. To look at him, you’d think he was
about to lead an expedition through the Rockies. Then again, my buildings
are tall, and he scouts the right locations for them, so maybe there’s a
reason for his getups. It works for him, and he does a good job, so I don’t
mind.
It’s certainly not groundbreaking news that the early victories by the
women on The Apprentice were, to a very large extent, dependent on their
sex appeal. The fact that sex sells is nothing new. However, women are
judged harshly when they go too far, so be careful in how you present
yourself. If you want to be acknowledged for your intelligence as well as
your beauty, don’t stand in your own way. Not everyone can tune out a
knock-em-dead appearance. Think of how you would like to be perceived,
and proceed from there.
I tend to notice what people are wearing only if they look
exceptionally well put together—or exceptionally badly put together. It
has more to do with style than which designer they may or may not be
wearing. As I said, expensive clothing usually looks like it was worth the
price.
Have you ever noticed how we tend to pigeonhole people in certain
professions by their appearance? It’s a form of shorthand to just be able to
say “your basic accountant type” or “a typical advertising type” when
describing someone. Every profession has a certain look or standard. Just
say “banker” and you’ve saved yourself a hundred words. It’s not always
fair, but that’s how it works.
However, you don’t have to be a typical anything.
For example, Frank McKinney looks like a cross between a rock star
and a surfer dude. You would never guess by looking at him that he’s a
real estate entrepreneur who sells ultra-high-end residential real estate in
Florida. When he speeds by you on his motorcycle in his Versace vest with
his two feet of blond hair blowing in the wind, you can bet he’s on his way
to a business meeting. But that’s Frank’s style, and he’s very successful.
I’m a conservative dresser due to business considerations and to save
time. I enjoy flamboyance in other people—I’m more interested in what a
beautiful woman might wear than in anything I might ever put on.
Be aware that your attire can literally become a costume. I’ve known a
lot of terrific-looking scoundrels and a lot of well-dressed bums.
Being tasteful is being tasteful, no matter what line of work you’re in.
Sure, it helps to have the money to buy great clothes, but a little style can
go a long way. Many people go out and hire financial advisers, but I have also seen a lot
of those advisers destroy people.
Athletes, in particular, make a great deal of money at a very young
age. Too often, some manager squanders the athlete’s fortune and they
wind up in their thirties with nothing left but their past glory—and are
forced to get jobs just to survive.
A good friend of mine and truly one of the greatest basketball players
who has ever lived, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, was in the NBA for over
twenty years, only to find that some bad advice had destroyed much of his
wealth. I don’t know whether it was theft or stupidity, but it was a shame.
Herschel Walker is an athlete who signed big contracts, with both the
USFL and NFL. One day, he came to me and told me he was going to
invest in a fast-food franchise. I told him, “Herschel, you are a friend of
mine, but if you do that, I will not speak to you again.” Because of the
relationship we had (and continue to have), he decided not to make the
investment. The company went bankrupt two years later. Herschel is now
a wealthy man, and he thanks me every time I see him.
When it comes to picking a financial adviser, rely on your own
judgment based on what you read in reliable publications like The Wall
Street Journal, Forbes, Business Week, and Fortune. They are usually terrific,
even though, on occasion, they say some negative things about me. I’m
angry at Fortune at the moment—and for good reason—but even Fortune
sometimes manages to awake from its stupor to report something
worthwhile. I’m particularly impressed with an editor there named
Geoffrey Colvin, who is also the host of Wall Street Week on PBS and has
written perceptively about corporate restructuring.
The New York Post has developed a truly great business section—and
one that is fun to read. Lately, The New York Times’s coverage of business
has gone right to the top!
If you read these financial publications for a while, you will start to
pick up on the cadence and get a feel for what’s happening in the market,
which funds are the best, and who the best advisers are.
Stay with the winners. Often, you will read about somebody who has
made money quickly and then relies on one of his friends to invest his
fortune. That friend has no track record, and if it weren’t for his
connection to a rich investor, he wouldn’t have any money. Beware of
instant stars in the world of finance. Trust the people who do it again and
again, and who are consistently ranked high by the four best institutional
business media outlets. But trust your own common sense first. There are numerous firms that provide comprehensive charts and other
information on the best returns from certain financial advisers and funds.
Study those charts, not over the short term (maybe they just got lucky) but
over a fifteen- or twenty-year period.
Invest with the help of a major firm like Goldman Sachs, Morgan
Stanley, Bear Stearns, or Merrill Lynch. These are your hard-earned
savings at stake. Don’t take unnecessary risks.
Generally there is a reason for success. When you look at legends like
Alan “Ace” Greenberg and Warren Buffett and marvel at how good they
are, you will likely see that what makes them so successful is the same
quality you should apply to every one of your own investments—common
sense.
I’ve read many of Warren Buffett’s annual reports. In every case, what
fascinates me is that he is able to reduce things to the simplest of terms.
Many accomplished Wall Street gurus can make you dizzy with talk of
intricate financial maneuverings. They might impress you with their
sophisticated computerized trading results, their fifty percent returns from
options on products that may not even exist yet. Fortunes are won and lost
every day in these markets, but as far as I’m concerned, those folks would
be just as successful if they ditched their hedge funds and put all their
money on their favorite roulette number at the Trump Taj Mahal Casino in
Atlantic City.
You paid good money for this book, and I know you’re expecting
sophisticated investment advice. The wisest thing I can tell you is to invest
only in products you understand, with people you know you can trust.
Sometimes the best investments are the ones you don’t make. Wayne Newton is a great friend of mine, and he made a lot of money over
the years. Unfortunately, given terrible advice, he lost his money and was
forced to declare bankruptcy. Meanwhile, his lawyers were eating him
alive.
He called me and said, “Donald, I heard you owed $9.2 billion to a
hundred banks in the early nineties and you never went bankrupt. How
did you do it? Because I just can’t seem to get out of this mess. My lawyers
are making a fortune and the banks are impossible.”
I asked Wayne how many banks were involved. He told me it was
three. “You’re lucky,” I said. “I had ninety-nine banks and I made a point
of becoming best friends with everybody at every bank. You have to do
the same.”
I gave him some more advice, which he has generously acknowledged
in many interviews. I told him, “Wayne, you are a major celebrity. Have
your secretary call the three banks and get the person who is really in
charge, not the figurehead, and personally talk to all three people. Arrange
a meeting with them, ideally a dinner with them and their families. Get to
know them. At the end of this period of time, they’ll like you. They’ll be
impressed by you because you are a celebrity. They may control a lot of
money, but they don’t control fame, and people are impressed by fame.
Forget your lawyers. They are never going to want to settle the case,
because then their legal fees stop. You must do it yourself. Call the
bankers. Become friendly with the bankers. And make a deal.”
Wayne called me three weeks later. He’d had dinner with all three
bankers and said they were among the nicest people he’d ever met. They
brought their wives and children. Later, he cut deals with every one of
them. The banks were taken care of over a period of time, the lawyers
didn’t get any richer, and today Wayne is doing fantastically well.
You’re probably wondering how this rule applies to your life if you
are not headlining a major Las Vegas show. Here’s how: Wayne took
control of the situation. He appealed to the people in charge. Most of us
need lawyers at some point in our lives, and we all have to deal with large
bureaucracies. But sometimes you need to go right to the top, and you
need to do it yourself. You don’t have to sing “Danke schön” to make a
sincere personal approach.
Of course, there will be times when lawyers are essential. Some people
are scoundrels.1 In those instances, sue the bastards. But whenever
possible, settle. It saves a lot of time for everyone involved. My kids know the value of money from example. They see how hard I
work. I don’t talk about it with them because I don’t have to—they have
eyes.
They see the way I live. I turn off the lights whenever I leave the office.
I’m always happy to get a good deal, whether I’m buying a building or
buying supplies at Duane Reade. (Trust me: You can get a good deal on
shaving cream there.)
I always remember the example my parents set for me. I could see their
determination and discipline. They didn’t have to harp on it. I try to be the
way they were.
My parents were frugal in the sense that they knew it wasn’t easy to
make money, and that it should be treated with respect. They lived well
but simply, and were not flamboyant in their spending.
We rarely went out to eat. We took relatively few elaborate vacations.
They emphasized schooling and education. We had a solid family life,
and I remember feeling very fortunate. Each of us was expected to
contribute something not only to the family as a whole, but to society.
That is a Trump family value that is ingrained in me, and one I’ve tried to
live up to. My children have benefited from affluence, as I did, but it’s surprising
how unspoiled they are in many ways. They have budgets and live within
them. They have limits on their credit cards, and they have them more for
protection in an emergency than for anything else. When they were
growing up, both of my sons earned extra money during their summer
vacations by mowing lawns, cutting trees, moving stones, and doing
landscaping work at the Seven Springs estate in Westchester. Ivanka
attended the School of American Ballet, which requires an enormous
amount of discipline and training.
College kids today are more money savvy, perhaps, than kids from
earlier generations. They seem serious about their money. This is a good
sign, because the sooner you understand the value of money, the more
likely you are to possess large amounts of it.
If your children see you being careless with money, they will assume
it’s okay for them to be careless. Children watch. That’s how they learn.
Your priorities will often become their priorities. Any family can have a
wild card or two, but on the whole, it’s been proven that children will
learn from what they see.
If you obviously enjoy going to Las Vegas to gamble, it’s likely they’ll
think this is a good thing and will follow suit. If you like going to Carnegie
Hall and bring the kids along, they’ll think this is an exciting event
because you do. Children inherently like to please, so think about the
values you exhibit. Sooner or later, kids will form their own tastes, but the
initial exposure is important. In this part of the book, I want to tell you about some of my favorite deals
and the essential rules of negotiation they exemplify.
First, though, here’s my basic philosophy of how deals are done: It’s
all about persuasion, not power.
Power is merely the ability to convince people to accept your ideas.
Just because I am a successful businessman doesn’t mean I always get
my way. It’s true that I don’t have to be as vociferous about things as
before. I don’t have to act like a bulldozer to get attention. But I have to
coax and make my case just like any other negotiator.
An interviewer from Brazil recently asked me what the best parts and
the worst parts of having so much money and success were. I had the
same answer to both questions: the effect it has on people.
Anyone in a position of power will probably agree with me. There are
pluses and minuses.
The plus side is that people will listen to you more readily than if you
aren’t on the map financially. The minus side is that they will reduce you
to one dimension and keep you there.
Power is not just about calling all the shots. It’s about ability. You can
call all the shots, but if they’re bad ones, no one will take much notice after
a while. Know what you’re doing. That’s where the real power comes from.
? 119 ?
?How to Get Rich
Convincing others has a lot to do with understanding negotiation.
Study the art of persuasion. Practice it. Develop an understanding of its
profound value across all aspects of life.
Don’t expect people to believe your blarney simply because you’re
good at delivering it. The boardroom is not the pub down on the corner.
Make it easy on the people you are trying to convince. Give them
readily accessible metaphors and analogies. If you are too far over their
heads, they’ll feel frustrated or, worse, inferior. Let them know you’re all
on the same level in some way. Use humor. It’s a great icebreaker. I
sometimes tell people that I wish our meeting had been yesterday, because
I was having a great hair day and they missed it!
Convincing other people of how wonderful you are and how lofty
your ideas are is a good way to convince them to tune out or, better yet, to
escape from you as soon as possible. We all need to have a healthy dose of
confidence to be convincing, but don’t bulldoze. If you do, you may see a
lot of people in front of you at first, but the room will soon be empty.
As the adage goes, “There’s a fine line between acceptance and
resignation.” You want people to accept your ideas, not merely be resigned
to them because they think they can’t fight back or are just plain exhausted
by you. Don’t browbeat them into believing you. Let them think the
decision is theirs. It will give them a feeling of control.
Here is the golden rule of negotiating:
He who has the gold makes the rules.
If you walk into a negotiation and know nothing about the other party,
let them talk, listen to their tone, observe their body language, and
determine whether they really want to make a deal or just show you how
smart they are.
Most negotiations should proceed calmly, rather than in a hostile
manner. However, sometimes a negotiation works best after a few screams
and some table pounding.
? 120 ?
?How to Get Rich
The best negotiators are chameleons. Their attitude, demeanor,
approach, and posture in a negotiation will depend on the person on the
other side of the table.
If the other party to the transaction wants to acquire something you
own, let them convince you that you really don’t want it or need it. In
doing so, they’ll convince you of just how badly they want it.
Money is not always the only consideration for exchange in the sale of
an asset. Think beyond the traditional boundaries.
Learn the value of saying no. View any conflict as an opportunity.
Most important, know the party on the other side of the table before
sitting down with them. Research who you’re dealing with, how they
negotiate, and what they want from you.
Now you’re ready to deal. The following stories illustrate these basic
rules. One of the best deals I ever made was the acquisition of the tallest
building in lower Manhattan, a 1.3-million-square-foot landmark known
as 40 Wall Street.
I got it for $1 million, and the negotiation was all about timing and
intuition.
In the 1960s and 1970s, 40 Wall Street was truly a hot property—a fully
occupied building. Then in the 1980s, it was bought by Ferdinand Marcos,
who was busy dealing with a revolution in the Philippines. The skyscraper
at 40 Wall Street fell into decline, proving once again that a business
should never be run by a dictator, especially a real one about to be booted
from power.
Then the Resnicks, a prominent real estate family, descended on 40
Wall Street, but after a long period of negotiation, it became clear that the
Resnicks and Citibank weren’t going to make a deal and that 40 Wall
Street would be back on the block. I wanted very much at this time to
make my move, but this was in the early 1990s and I was in no position to
do so. The real estate market was terrible, and my own financial straits
were woeful.
The next buyer was the Kinson Company, a group from Hong Kong.
They made a great deal, and after the purchase was complete, I requested
a meeting with them to discuss a possible partnership. They weren’t
interested in a partnership, but they did want to make 40 Wall Street the
? 123 ?
?How to Get Rich
downtown equivalent of Trump Tower, including a public atrium. It
sounded like a beautiful idea. However, what they would do with the
steel columns that supported a seventy-two-story building never seemed
to enter their minds. I was dumbfounded.
As you can probably guess, the Kinson group proved to be relatively
clueless about renovating, running, and leasing out a New York City
skyscraper. They weren’t in the real estate business to begin with—they
were mostly in apparel—and they were in way over their heads. They
poured tens of millions of dollars into the building but were getting
nowhere. They had problems with tenants, contractors, suppliers,
architects, even the owners of the land, a prominent family from Germany,
the Hinnebergs. Eventually, Kinson wanted out, and they called me.
It was now 1995 and the market still wasn’t so good. Kinson had every
reason to want to get out, and they wanted to do it quickly and quietly. So
the negotiations began, with me offering them $1 million in addition to
assuming and negotiating their liens. I also made the deal subject to a
restructured ground lease with the Hinneberg family.
They accepted my terms without question.
Why? Because they wanted out—and fast. They knew it and I knew it,
and because I knew it, the negotiation was easy.
There was another crucial aspect to this deal, which proves the
importance of knowing what the other side wants: All of the prior
leaseholders had dealt with the agent of the Hinneberg family. The agent
insisted on increasing the rent and raised other financial obstacles that he
said the owner insisted upon. I had to see for myself what the Hinnebergs
wanted—was it money, or something else? If you want the truth, go to the
source and skip the translation by the intermediary.
I flew to Germany with Bernie Diamond, my general counsel, for a
face-to-face meeting with the owner, who seemed impressed by the fact
that I would travel across the Atlantic to see him. I learned that what he
? 124 ?
?How to Get Rich
really wanted was peace of mind in connection with his ownership of the
land, but all he was getting was aggravation and litigation. I told him I
would agree to turn the present disaster into a first-class office building if
he would forgo all rent during the renovation period and revise the lease
to permit rental to quality subtenants and bank financing for part of the
building improvements. He agreed—and it was the first of many instances
that confirmed my belief that Walter, Christian, and Walter Hinneberg Jr.
are among the finest people with whom I’ve ever done business.
Very soon after acquiring 40 Wall Street, the markets turned for the
better, and the downtown area experienced a renaissance in terms of both
commercial and residential properties and developments.
I make a great deal of money from 40 Wall Street. Aside from owning
the most beautiful building in lower Manhattan, I have the added
attraction of owning a particularly lucrative one, all because I watched the
property carefully for decades, waiting for my moment, and knew what
the other side was thinking. 