Remember that Marco Rubio is very weak on illegal immigration. South Carolina needs strength as illegals and Syrians pour in. Don't allow it.
I wonder if President Obama would have attended the funeral of Justice Scalia if it were held in a Mosque? Very sad that he did not go!
All aboard the Trump Train!
Trump expressed concerns months after the Iraq War began, while 60% of Americans still supported the war.
I am the only candidate (in many years) who is self-funding his campaign. Lobbyists and $ interests totally control all other candidates!
EVERYBODY ON TWITTER GET OUT TO VOTE FOR TRUMP TODAY IN SOUTH CAROLINA
WHY DOES TED CRUZ LIE SO MUCH? LET'S FACE IT TED NEVER CREATED EVEN 1 JOB HIS ENTIRE LIFE!
Mr.Trump...BOTH Cruz AND Rubio are ineligible to be POTUS! It's a SLAM DUNK CASE!! Check it!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Just finished two major speeches in South Carolina. Big crowds, great people. Going for a third now!
Boycott all Apple products  until such time as Apple gives cellphone info to authorities regarding radical Islamic terrorist couple from Cal
Hopefully others will follow suit. Our country needs & should demand security. It is time to get tough & be smart!
I use both iPhone & Samsung. If Apple doesn't give info to authorities on the terrorists I'll only be using Samsung until they give info.
I have built so many great & complicated projects– creating tens of thousands of jobs
I’m self-funding and I am going to take care of the people – not the special interests and insurance companies like the other candidates.
I will replace it with private plans, health savings accounts, & allow purchasing across state lines. Maximum choice & freedom for consumer.

President Obama will encounter a different, more enterprising country in his visit next month. But freedom remains a distant goal.
Nevada Democrats and South Carolina Republicans will start resolving pressing questions about the presidential race on Saturday in the next round of what have become unexpectedly fierce nominating contests.
The vote on Saturday is a critical test of organization and strength for Republicans and Democrats alike.
The United States is taking some important new steps to clamp down on the use of indentured workers on the high seas.
The West has capitulated. Syria is a land of the dead and the dying, in need of heroes to redeem humanity
Yes, civilians are killed in drone strikes. But the program is based on accurate intelligence, and it works, a former C.I.A. chief writes.
Bolivia's president has much to be proud of, but a decade in power has changed him in troubling ways.
Racial animus still drives the state’s Republican primary.
