Join us for live coverage and analysis of the Nevada Democratic caucuses and the South Carolina Republican primary.
The Democratic caucus in Nevada and the Republican primary in South Carolina could answer pressing questions about the campaign.
Nevada’s demographics aren’t quite as good for Hillary Clinton as many assume. South Carolina will be a key test for Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz.
In a state known for dirty politics, presidential candidates are embracing campaign strategies that often straddle the line between underhanded and dishonest.
Up to now, Mr. Trump has been impervious to allegations of inconsistent policy positions.
Voters go to the polls in South Carolina on Saturday for the state’s Republican primary. Here is a look at some key information.
Nevada voters caucus on Saturday for the state’s Democratic presidential contest. Here is a look at some key information.
The funeral on Saturday was one of those ritual moments when the perpetual struggle at the intersection of law and politics is briefly suspended.
A film company had uploaded footage of a man who appeared to be Bernie Sanders being arrested at a protest, and on Friday his campaign confirmed it was the Vermont senator.
The former first daughter, pregnant with her second child, has been campaigning nonstop for Hillary Clinton and knocked on doors in Las Vegas on Friday.
Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio has practically written off South Carolina, looking toward the more moderate political climate in the Midwest and Northeast.
Several Republican candidates have criticized Apple’s stance on the F.B.I.’s request to help it unlock the San Bernardino gunman’s iPhone, but Mr. Trump is the first to call for a boycott.
Holding rallies in three cities hundreds of miles apart, Mr. Sanders urged the state’s Democrats to “show the world that democracy is alive and well here in Nevada.”
At nearby rallies, supporters of Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz echoed the candidates’ language and themes – a sign that the bitter feud between the candidates has seeped into voters.
Constituents have told Mr. Grassley, head of the Senate Judiciary Committee, that they want the panel to take up a nominee to succeed Justice Antonin Scalia.
South Carolina’s Republican primary comes as a new poll shows Donald J. Trump’s lead shrinking. The Democrats face a fiercely contested caucus in Nevada.
If Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders tie for individual delegates on Saturday, the winner will be determined by drawing cards.
Two forensic pathologists said Justice Scalia&#8217;s death was handled appropriately, but a third said it was &#8220;almost unbelievable&#8221; that the body of a divisive public figure was not examined.
A lower court had forced the Republican-dominated legislature to redraw its congressional maps on grounds they amounted to racial gerrymandering.
Republicans and Democrats agree that Congress must act. But the devil is in the details.
Senator Rob Portman, a moderate Ohio Republican seeking a second term, may lose Democratic voters with his opposition to nominating a new justice.
Prosecutors offered a sharp rejoinder to Apple’s position that refusing to help the government was a matter of protecting customers’ privacy.
Six New York Times photographers have blanketed the early presidential campaign states during the last three weeks, challenged by carefully constructed stagecraft.
The Times has produced a virtual reality film from footage taken over the last month capturing the candidates and perhaps the best part of their events: the crowds.
The task for the candidates, the interest groups and the news media is to focus on real challenges that would confront the next president.
An analysis of 95,000 words Mr. Trump said in public in the past week reveals powerful patterns in his speech which, historians say, echo the appeals of demagogues of the past century.
The super-affluent throw tens of millions of dollars into candidate and “super PAC” coffers, seeking to influence the 2016 presidential race.
Unprecedented political spending helped elect a fresh-faced financier. But his ideological vision has unsettled many in the state.
The impoverished island turned to hedge funds to stave off collapse. Now someone has to pay.
The very richest are able to quietly shape tax policy that will allow them to shield billions in income.
